Added Feature Store architecture documentation (#81)
opendatahub-io/architecture-decision-records: documentation/components/feature_store/README.md

# Feast Feature Store Architecture

<!-- sources:
https://docs.feast.dev/

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
https://rtd.feast.dev/
```

-->

## Introduction

Feast (Feature Store) is an open-source feature store that helps teams operate production ML systems at scale by allowing them to define, manage, validate, and serve features for production AI/ML.

## Feast Feature Store High Level Architecture

The architecture diagram presents a high level overview of OpenShift AI environment that integrates Feast for feature store, and other component like Data Science Pipelines / Notebooks for Model training, a Model Registry for using models, and Model Serving for model inference/serving. 

![feature-store-overview](images/feature-store-overview.jpg)

## Goals

- Integrate Feast Feature Store as a centralized repository for feature management within OpenShift AI. 
- Provide a unified view of features used during model training and serving stages.

> ## Components

Reviewer 2: We should include the feature store controller/operator in this list of components.

Author: Feature Store Controller/Operator included in the component list.

Feast's feature store is composed of below foundational components: 
<!-- sources:
https://docs.feast.dev/getting-started/components

-->

> 1. [**Offline Store**](https://docs.feast.dev/getting-started/components/registry) : Used for historical feature extraction used in model training.

Author: Thanks for catching this fixed now.

> 2. [**Online Store**](https://docs.feast.dev/getting-started/components/offline-store): Used for serving features at low-latency in production. 

Reviewer 2: Rather than "at low-latency in production" maybe word this as "at low-latency for inference requests in production" so that we're very clear on what is meant by "in production"

Author: Done as suggested.

> 2. [**Online Store**](https://docs.feast.dev/getting-started/components/offline-store): Used for serving features at low-latency in production. 

Reviewer 2: Somewhere in this document we should mention the backing storage for the online store and what is the default in RHOAI

Author: If I recall correctly, there was discussion to use MariaDB in RHOAI by default. However, let's double-check this with @etirelli

Reviewer: Yes, that was the one we had originally considered but it may be a good idea for us to go with Milvus. 😅

> 3. [**Registry**](https://docs.feast.dev/getting-started/components/online-store): Used to keep track of feature store definitions and state (optionally backed by GCS or S3 based persistent storage). The Feast Registry acts as the backbone for storing feature definitions, which are typically written in Python, stored in repositories, and shared across environments such as staging and production.

Reviewer 2: What kind of repository is meant in "stored in repositories?" Git repositories or feature repositories? Let's be explicit here.

Author: This is feature repository, updated accordingly.

4. [**Feast Python SDK/CLI**](https://docs.feast.dev/reference/feast-cli-commands): The primary user facing SDK
   - Manage version controlled feature definitions.
   - Materialize (load) feature values into the online store.
   - Build and retrieve training datasets from the offline store.
   - Retrieve online features.
5. [**Batch Materialization Engine**](https://docs.feast.dev/getting-started/components/batch-materialization-engine) : A batch materialization engine is a component of Feast that's responsible for moving data from the offline store into the online store.
6. [**Feature Repository**](https://docs.feast.dev/reference/feature-repository/feature-store-yaml) : Contains Feature definitions files written in Python , and the `feature_store.yaml` file to configure the feature store, including data sources with Feast project.
7. [**Feature Store Controller/Operator**](https://github.com/feast-dev/feast/tree/master/infra/feast-operator) - Responsible for the deployment of Feast Feature Servers (online store, offline store, registry) in Kubernetes/OpenShift environments.

> 

Reviewer: Should add a component about the Feature Server. https://github.com/feast-dev/feast/pull/4868

Author: Added under `Feature Store Controller/Operator` along with the other servers (Offline/Registry). Let me know if that makes sense.

Reviewer: I'd recommend adding it explicitly as it's a core component for actually serving the online store.

Author: Got it. Added. Please take a look when get time. Thanks!

## Feature Store Flow with OpenShift AI.

**1. Feature Store Initialization**

> The UI Dashboard initializes/Create the FeatureStore CR and sets config for feature services for data ingestion, transformation, and storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The UI Dashboard initializes/Creates the FeatureStore CR and sets the config for feature services used for data ingestion, transformation, and storage.
```

**2. Data Ingestion into Feature Store**

> Once pre-processed, the data is sent to Feast via batch or streaming data pipelines. Feast connectors simplify integration with various data sources (batch, stream, and on-demand).

Reviewer: Data can be sent to Feast either pre-processed (e.g., via batch or streaming data pipelines) or raw and transformed by the Feast feature server during data ingestion (i.e., transformed prior to being written to the online store). Feast simplifies the integration with various data sources by providing an opinionated yet flexible API.

> Once pre-processed, the data is sent to Feast via batch or streaming data pipelines. Feast connectors simplify integration with various data sources (batch, stream, and on-demand).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data can be sent to Feast either pre-processed (e.g., via batch or streaming data pipelines) or raw and transformed by the Feast feature server during data ingestion (i.e., transformed prior to being written to the online store). Feast simplifies the integration with various data sources by providing an opinionated yet flexible API.
```

**3. Data Storage in Feature Store**

**Offline Store:** Persistent storage (database/warehouse) for historical feature data used in model training and batch scoring.

> **Online Store:** Low-latency storage (in-memory/cache) for frequently accessed features required during real-time inference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Offline Store**: A lower-cost, persistent storage system (e.g., data warehouse) optimized for storing large volumes of historical feature data used in model training and batch scoring. It prioritizes storage efficiency over low-latency access.

**Online Store**: A higher-cost, low-latency storage system (e.g., in-memory database or cache) designed to provide rapid access to frequently used features during real-time inference, optimizing for speed and responsiveness.
```

> **Feature Registry:** Metadata storage to track feature definitions and their transformations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Feature Registry:** Metadata storage to track feature definitions, feature transformations, and feature metadata.
```

**4. Data Retrieval for Model Training**
Data Science Pipelines retrieve historical features from the Offline Store. Feature views in the Feature Registry define how features are joined and retrieved.

**5. Model Training**
The retrieved data is split into train, test, and hold-out sets. The model is iteratively trained and evaluated on these datasets.

**6. Model Evaluation**

> The trained model is validated on a hold-out dataset to assess its accuracy and generalizability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The trained model is validated on a hold-out dataset to assess its accuracy, generalizability, and impact to its domain.
```

**Workflow:** Data retrieved → Train/Test split → Train Model → Evaluate Performance.

**7. Model Registration**
The trained model is registered in the Model Registry. 

**8. Model Deployment**
The registered model is deployed to the Model Server.

**9. Inference Request**

> Applications send inference requests to the Model Server. The server retrieves real-time features from the Online Store and generates predictions using the deployed model.

Reviewer: It should be noted that this is one way to do it.  An alternative is to flip it and use the feature store to cache a prediction.

https://docs.feast.dev/getting-started/architecture/model-inference#id-3.-online-model-inference-with-online-features-and-cached-predictions

Reviewer: I mention this because for latency sensitive applications, this is often a good choice.

**Online Store**: A higher-cost, low-latency storage system (e.g., in-memory database or cache) designed to provide rapid access to frequently used features during real-time inference, optimizing for speed and responsiveness.
**Feature Registry:** Metadata storage to track feature definitions, feature transformations, and feature metadata.

**4. Data Retrieval for Model Training**
Data Science Pipelines retrieve historical features from the Offline Store. Feature views in the Feature Registry define how features are joined and retrieved.

**5. Model Training**
The retrieved data is split into train, test, and hold-out sets. The model is iteratively trained and evaluated on these datasets.

**6. Model Evaluation**
The trained model is validated on a hold-out dataset to assess its accuracy, generalizability, and impact to its domain.
**Workflow:** Data retrieved → Train/Test split → Train Model → Evaluate Performance.

**7. Model Registration**
The trained model is registered in the Model Registry. 

**8. Model Deployment**
The registered model is deployed to the Model Server.

**9. Inference Request**

> Applications send inference requests to the Model Server. The server retrieves real-time features from the Online Store and generates predictions using the deployed model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are three ways to orchestrate inference requests. 
    1. The applications sends an inference requests to the Model Server and the Model Server retrieves real-time features from the Feature Server and generates predictions using the retrieved features and deployed model.
    2. The application sends an inference request to the Feature Server and the Feature Server sends the features to the Model Server and generates predictions using the deployed model.
    3. The application sends a request to the Feature Server and sends the features to the Model Server whcih generates predictions using the deployed model.
```
